WELCOME TO THE ANN
ARBOR HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
MEETING TO ORDER.
&gt;&gt; OK, FIRST OF ALL, HAVE OUR
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT DENISE
GENEVE GIVE US A ROLL CALL TO
DEMONSTRATE OUR KWAM OK,
COMMISSIONER WINKLER ABSENT
TODAY COMMISSIONER HOLON HERE
TO ISTANBUL HERE COMMISSIONER
DAN HERE.
COMMISSIONER CARSE HERE.
COMMISSIONER EVANS HERE.
COMMISSIONER SILVER HERE.
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON HERE.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA HERE.
VICE CHAIR GARBER HERE.
YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
PUBLIC COMMENT
.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS TEACHER BARTON.
I WAS BORN AND RAISED IN ANN
ARBOR.
I&apos;M AN EAGLE SCOUT EAGLE SCOUT.
WE WORK HERE.
I&apos;M A RETIRED PEACE CORPS
VOLUNTEER, A FORMER BIG IN THE
BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS
PROGRAM, A FORMER INSTRUCTOR
OF THE RED CROSS.
I&apos;VE DEDICATED MY LIFE FOR THE
BETTERMENT OF MY SOCIETY OVER
THREE MONTHS AGO I WAS DENIED
ACCESS TO CITY SERVICES AND
THEN I WAS DENIED DUE PROCESS
TO FULLY FORMED WHAT I ACTUALLY
DID AND HOW I CAN RESOLVE THIS
ISSUE BY COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL
MEMBER NELSON WAS CAMPAIGNING
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE I OWN
PROPERTY AND SHE DIDN&apos;T
RECOGNIZE WHO I WAS SO I WAS
ABLE TO TALK TO HER.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HONEST WITH
ME.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT SHE TOLD
ME TO CONTACT THIS COMMISSION
WHEN I CONTACTED THIS
COMMISSION I STATED EXACTLY
WHAT HAPPENED BUT I ALSO STATED
THAT THERE IS MUCH MORE AND I
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK WITH
SOMEONE FROM THIS COMMISSION.
THE RESPONSE I GOT WAS FROM
LESLIE STATING THAT HAD NOTHING
TO DO WITH THE ACTUAL
COMPLAINT.
SHE WAS TALKING ABOUT POLICIES
,PROCEDURES AND MADE A
CONCEPTUAL STATEMENT SAYING
THEY&apos;RE ALL IN LINE.
SO GLAD YOU ADMITTED THAT YOU
IS INCORRECT.
MY FOLLOW UP EMAILS ASKING TO
ACTUALLY SPEAK WITH SOMEONE ON
THIS COMMISSION ABOUT THIS
ISSUE ABOUT ME BEING DENIED
SERVICES AND DUE PROCESS IN THE
CITY THAT I WAS BORN AND RAISED
AND WAS AGAIN IGNORED AGAIN
WENT BACK DOWN TO CITY HALL TO
TRY AND ACTUALLY GET DUE
PROCESS AND FIND OUT WHY I&apos;M
BEING DENIED SERVICES.
I WAS AGAIN DENIED AND AGAIN
DENIED ACCESS TO SPEAK WITH THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR POINT BLANK
TOLD HE&apos;S REFUSED TO SPEAK WITH
ME.
I CAN FILE A COMPLAINT AGAIN
WITH THIS COMMISSION AND LESLIE
AGAIN IGNORED THE ACTUAL
MENTIONING ANY OF THE ISSUES
OF DENIAL DUE PROCESS OR MY
REQUEST TO IN ANY WAY SET UP A
MEETING IN ANY CAPACITY WITH
ANY MEMBER
OF THIS COMMITTEE.
I FINALLY DID GET A RESPONSE
FROM LESLIE STATING THAT SHE
SPOKE WITH THE CITY AND NOW
AFTER MY QUOTE MY CLAIM HAS
BEEN CLOSED.
SHE&apos;S NOW WILLING TO SPEAK WITH
ME SO I HOPE THAT IT IS NOT THE
POLICIES AND PRACTICES OF THIS
COMMITTEE THAT THEY REFUSED TO
SPEAK WITH SOMEONE WHO FILED A
COMPLAINT AFTER YOU CLOSED
THEIR COMPLAINT BECAUSE THAT
MEANS THAT THIS COMMISSION IS
MORE ABOUT PROTECTING THE CITY
FROM THE CITIZENS INSTEAD
OF THE CITY OR CITIZENS FROM
THE CITY ABUSE.
&gt;&gt; SO I HOPE THAT SOMEONE WILL
ACTUALLY BRING THIS UP AND
ACTUALLY REOPEN MY CASE AND
ACTUALLY TALK TO ME AND SPEAK
WITH ME BEFORE YOU CLOSE MY
CASE.
I THINK THAT IS REASONABLY
ACCEPTABLE THAT SOMEONE FROM
THIS COMMITTEE WILL ACTUALLY
SPEAK WITH THE CITIZEN FILES A
COMPLAINT BEFORE YOU CLOSE
THEIR COMPLAINT.
I THINK THAT IS AT LEAST
DECENTLY ACCEPTABLE.
THIS IS THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMITTEE.
I AS A CITIZEN OF AMERICA I&apos;LL
ALLOW DUE PROCESS.
I COMPLETELY AND DIRECTLY
STATED THAT I&apos;M BEING DENIED
DUE PROCESS BY MY CITY.
I&apos;VE CONTACTED THE LAWYERS AND
EVERY POSSIBLE PERSON I CAN.
I WAS TOLD BY THE LIAISON FROM
THE CITY MANAGER THE COMMISSION
TO CONTACT THIS COMMISSION AND
THE ONLY RESPONSE I GET
AVOIDANCE OF ACTUALLY TRYING TO
SPEAK WITH ME AVOIDANCE
OF ACTUALLY MENTIONING THE LACK
OF DUE PROCESS AND THEN JUST
TOLD THAT SHE SPEAKS EVERYONE
ELSE BUT ME AND MY CASE IS
CLOSED AND ONLY AFTER FIVE
MINUTES MA&apos;AM, ONLY AFTER MY
CASE IS CLOSED ARE THEY WILLING
TO SPEAK WITH ME.
WHAT IS THE POINT OF SPEAKING
WITH A CITIZEN WHO HAS A
COMPLAINT ONLY AFTER YOU CLOSE
THEIR COMPLAINT THAT IS
INAPPROPRIATE IN NO WAY DUE
DILIGENCE IN NO WAY RESPECT THE
CITIZENS WHO HAVE ACTUALLY COME
OUT AND TRYING TO USE THIS
COMMITTEE AND JUSTIFY THE
VALIDITY OF THIS COMMITTEE WHEN
YOU GUYS REFUSED TO SPEAK WITH
SOMEONE UNTIL AFTER YOU CLOSED
THEIR CASE AND I&apos;M NOT BLAMING
ALL OF YOU BEDEVILING I
CONTACTED ONE OF YOU BUT IF NO
ONE ELSE IN THIS COMMITTEE IS
WILLING TO SPEAK WITH ME OR
CHALLENGE AND SAY THEY&apos;RE GOING
TO REOPEN MY CASE UNTIL SOMEONE
SPEAKS WITH ME, I THINK IT DOES
FALL ON ALL OF YOU THAT YOU&apos;RE
ACTUALLY HERE TO PROTECT THE
CITY FROM THE CITIZENS INSTEAD
OF THE CITY INSTEAD
OF PROTECTING THE CITIZENS IN
THE CITY BECAUSE THAT&apos;S NOT
JUSTICE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S NOT RESTORATIVE WHEN
YOU REFUSE TO SPEAK WITH
SOMEONE UNTIL AFTER YOU CLOSE
THEIR CASE.
THANK YOU FOR LISTENING TO ME.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE A GOOD DAY.
THANK YOU
.
LET ME JUST SAY THAT THAT I&apos;M
WILLING TO TALK TO YOU.
I CLOSED THE CASE BECAUSE THERE
WAS NO IT WAS NOT IN OUR
JURISDICTION.
&gt;&gt; WE BUT I CAN CERTAINLY SPEAK
WITH YOU.
&gt;&gt; I DID WRITE TO YOU YOU WANT
THAT RATHER THAN LET&apos;S SAY YOU
STAY OUT OF MY PLACE AND YOU
SAY IT&apos;S JUST UNICORN HORNS AND
RAINBOW HOPE IT MEANS
SOMETHING.
OK, ARE YOU THAT A REAL
PLEASURE TO SPEAK WITH ME?
HOW WOULD YOU SAY THIS TO ME?
THERE&apos;S STILL AN ONGOING CASE
AND THIS WE SAY THERE&apos;S STILL
AN ONGOING CASE.
&gt;&gt; I PLEASE I WILL CONSIDER AN
ONGOING CASE.
I WILL CALL YOU IS THAT WHAT DO
YOU WANT?
OK, I CAN OPEN IT BUT I SO AND
THE PART THAT SAYS YOU KNOW I
WOULD LIKE TO HAVE MY CASE
DISPLAYED AND I&apos;M ARE YOU
WILLING TO DIRECTLY SAY THAT?
SURE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE ONLINE
ON TELEPHONE.
&gt;&gt; NO NO.
OK IN THAT CASE LET&apos;S TALK
ABOUT THE AGENDA OK DID
SOMEBODY WANT TO CAN CAN WE
HAVE A MOTION TO LOOK OVER AND
APPROVE AGENDA BY MOTION ISSAKA
LET&apos;S HAVE A DISCUSSION.
ANY CHANGES TO THE AGENDA AS
YOU SEE IT ADDITIONS,
SUBTRACTIONS
THERE&apos;S NO
DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S TAKE A VOTE ALL IN
FAVOR.
I I POST FIRST THING ON THE
AGENDA IS MINUTES FOR ME.
ELEVEN
MOTION TO TO MOVE.
&gt;&gt; WE APPROVED THE MINUTES
SECOND ALL IN FAVOR.
&gt;&gt; ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MINUTES.
NOTHING IF THERE&apos;S NO JUST NOW
JUST NO DISCUSSION ON FAVOR I I
OPPOSE IT&apos;S APPROVED
.
I&apos;D LIKE TO START THESE
MEETINGS WITH SORT OF FOLLOW UP
ON WHAT&apos;S GOING ON IN CITY
COUNCIL AND WHAT&apos;S GOING ON
INSIDE OUTSIDE SUB COMMITTEES
THAT WE&apos;RE NOT WE&apos;RE PART
OF SOME OF US ARE PART OF OUR
CITY COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; TREVETHAN LIZABETH, ANYTHING
YOU&apos;D LIKE TO REPORT TO US?
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO SUPER RELEVANT I THINK TO
THIS COMMISSION IF FOLKS HAVE
NOT SEEN THE NEWS AS THIS
MORNING CHIEF COX WAS ANNOUNCED
AS THE NEW POLICE COMMISSIONER
IN BOSTON SO HE WILL BE LEAVING
THE CITY.
SO I THINK WE THANK HIM FOR HIS
SERVICE TO THE CITY AND WISH
HIM WELL AS HE RETURNS BACK
HOME.
&gt;&gt; BUT THAT IS CERTAINLY
RELEVANT I THINK TO THIS BODY
AND THEN I CAN GIVE ANOTHER
BRIEF UPDATE.
I WAS JUST TALKING TO
COMMISSIONER SILVER.
WE ARE CONTINUING TO TRY TO
PRESS FORWARD ON GETTING SOME
FINAL LANGUAGE FOR FACIAL
RECOGNITION.
IT CONTINUES TO KIND OF SLOWLY
MOVE ALONG.
BUT I DID HAVE ANOTHER
CONVERSATION WITH COUNCIL
MEMBERS ON LAST WEEKEND AS WELL
AND SO I THINK WE&apos;RE GOING TO
TRY TO PUT OUR HEADS BACK
TOGETHER AND KEEP PUSHING FOR
SOME FINAL LANGUAGE THAT WE CAN
CONSIDER HAVING.
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU DO YOU HAVE A SENSE
OF WHAT THE PROCESS WILL BE
AFTER CHIEF KLAUS LEAVES THE
END AT THE END OF THE MONTH?
&gt;&gt; I DO.
IT&apos;S POSSIBLE THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER NELSON MIGHT HAVE A
LITTLE BIT MORE FAMILIARITY
HAVING BEEN I KNOW YOU TALKED
ABOUT JUST CURIOUS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WE ENDED UP WITH
FINALISTS THAT SUITED THE LAST
GO ROUND AND I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW
THE PROCESS MAY OR MAY NOT BE
DIFFERENT THIS TIME AROUND.
WE DID HAVE A ROUND
OF FINALISTS WHO PARTICIPATED
IN AN INTERVIEW WITH COUNCIL
AND A MEET AND GREET WITH
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AND THEN
I I BELIEVE THAT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AT THE TIME MADE
A RECOMMENDATION FOR WHO TO
HIRE.
I BELIEVE THAT WAS THE PROCESS
I IT FEELS LIKE A VERY LONG
TIME AGO NOW I ACTUALLY HAVE A
SMALL UPDATE.
WE HAD THE COMMISSIONER ON
DISABILITIES ISSUES.
WE HAD WE HAVE BEEN DISCUSSING
FOR SOME TIME THE NEED FOR A
COORDINATOR AT THE CITY HALL
AROUND DISABILITY ISSUES AND
COORDINATING COMPLAINTS THAT
MIGHT BE FILED RELATIVE TO THE
ADA AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT.
&gt;&gt; AND SO WE HAVE AFTER QUITE A
LOT OF CONVERSATION WE ARE
HAVING A MEETING WITH THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
I THINK NEXT WEEK OR THE
FOLLOWING WEEK TO TALK ABOUT
THAT.
I THINK THAT&apos;S RELEVANT TO THIS
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; AM I RIGHT IN THINKING THAT
THE CITY CLERK IS NOW.
YES, YES.
AND WE ESTABLISHED THAT A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO AND FELT
THAT IT WAS INADEQUATE AND
THERE ARE A LOT OF TOPICS THAT
WE&apos;RE INTERESTED IN IN RAISING
AROUND HOW NEEDS ARE MET, HOW
COMPLAINTS ARE RAISED, CONCERNS
ARE RAISED AND WHAT THE
RESPONSE IS AT THE CITY LEVEL.
SO YOU&apos;RE THINKING OF HIRING
SOMEBODY TO HAVE THAT
EXCLUSIVELY?
&gt;&gt; YES.
YES, BECAUSE WE&apos;RE REALIZING
THAT THERE ARE A LOT OF I MEAN
THERE ARE A LOT OF ISSUES THAT
INTERSECT WITH THE NEEDS OF THE
DISABLED COMMUNITY AND SOMEBODY
WHO COULD COORDINATE THAT WOULD
PROBABLY BE VERY HELPFUL.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR ANY
NEWS ?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I ACTUALLY I HAVE A QUESTION
FOR COUNCIL MEMBER AND SAID SO
WILL THIS BE SOMEONE WHO TAKES
IT BEYOND JUST ADA COMPLAINTS?
IT WOULD BE ACCESSIBILITY
ISSUES IN GENERAL.
&gt;&gt; YEAH WE I&apos;D HAVE TO LOOK
THROUGH MY EMAIL WE REALLY WE
WE CAME UP WITH A LIST
OF SEVERAL ISSUES THAT WE WE
FELT LIKE THERE WASN&apos;T LIKE
RIGHT NOW THERE IS NOT ENOUGH
OF EVERYBODY REMEMBERING OH WE
SHOULD LOOP IN THE COMMISSION
ON DISABILITIES ISSUES OUP THIS
HELPS THIS IS RELEVANT.
WE NEED TO TO LIKE YEAH AND
THERE WAS A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO
I THINK THERE WAS CONVERSATION
THIS MIGHT BE AN APPROPRIATE
ROLE FOR A DCI COORDINATOR TO
TAKE ON.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH I THINK IT&apos;S
DEFINITELY RELEVANT TO THIS
COMMISSION IF WE CAN STAY
UPDATED AND I THINK IT&apos;S
RELEVANT IN TERMS OF WE NEED
SOMEONE BEYOND WHO CAN JUST
TAKE ADA COMPLAINTS BECAUSE WE
KNOW THAT WE NEED TO GO ABOVE
AND BEYOND IT&apos;S MUCH MORE YES,
IT&apos;S MUCH MORE THAN THAT.
THAT WAS SORT OF OUR STARTING
POINT WHEN WE REALIZED THAT THE
CITY CLERK WAS IDENTIFIED TO
PLAY THAT ROLE AND WE REALIZED
THAT SHE WAS MORE OF A
PLACEHOLDER THAN UNINTENTIONAL
ASSIGNMENT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
ARE YOU WORKING WITH THE
DISABILITIES COMMISSION?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT&apos;S WHERE THE
CONVERSATION STARTED.
YEAH.
SO THERE&apos;S SORT OF A
SUBCOMMITTEE OF MEMBERS FROM
THE COMMISSION ON DISABILITIES
ISSUES THAT I&apos;M MEETING WITH
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR ABOUT
THIS ISSUE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WE&apos;D LIKE TO BE
UPDATED.
THAT IS VERY RELEVANT.
THANK YOU.
ANYTHING ELSE?
LET&apos;S MOVE ON TO ONGOING HRC
WORK
STARTING WITH COMPLAINTS.
LET ME JUST GIVE YOU A QUICK
OVERVIEW OF WHAT WE&apos;RE SEEING.
IT IS AS OF JUNE 30TH I LOOKED
I LOOKED AT THE NUMBER
OF COMPLAINTS AND WE HAD ABOUT
THE SAME NUMBER AS WE HAD FOR
THE WHOLE YEAR OF 2000.
TWENTY ONE.
SO I&apos;M PROJECTING PROBABLY WILL
DOUBLE THIS YEAR THE NUMBER
OF COMPLAINTS WE HAVE.
&gt;&gt; ONE OF THE DIFFERENCES THERE
ARE A NUMBER OF DIFFERENCES BUT
ONE OF THE DIFFERENCES IS THAT
WE&apos;VE BEEN WE HAVE THE SOURCE
OF INCOME ORDINANCE AND THE
FAIR CHANCE HOUSING ORDINANCE
AND THAT IS GETTING US INTO
HOUSING SOMETHING WE HADN&apos;T
REALLY HAD MUCH IN THE WAY
OF COMPLAINTS ABOUT BEFORE AND
SOMETHING WE&apos;RE STILL LEARNING
ABOUT AND THAT IS GETTING US
COMPLAINTS THAT HAVE THIS SOUND
LIKE THEY MIGHT BE
DISCRIMINATION WHICH IS WHAT WE
HANDLE AS A COMMISSION BUT
AREN&apos;T REALLY THERE MORE
LANDLORDS ACTING BADLY OR
RENTERS ACTING BADLY.
&gt;&gt; BUT IT&apos;S THAT KIND OF THING.
SO WE&apos;RE GETTING MORE OF THOSE
KINDS OF THINGS.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S CHANGING A LITTLE
BIT OF HOW WE ARE OF HOW WE&apos;RE
WORKING AND HOW WE&apos;RE HANDLING
COMPLAINTS.
THE OTHER THING THAT ANOTHER
WAY WE&apos;RE CHANGING THE WAY WE
HANDLE COMPLAINTS IS THAT WE
LOOK AT OUR STRATEGIC PLANNING
MEETING LAST YEAR WE SAID WE
WERE GOING TO INCLUDE MORE
PEOPLE.
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE ABOUT FOUR
PEOPLE WHO TAKE COMPLAINTS
REGULARLY AND WE AND OTHER
PEOPLE SAID THEY WANTED TO DO
IT BUT IN FACT WHEN THE TIME
CAME THAT THEY NEEDED TO DO IT
,YOU KNOW, WE DON&apos;T HAVE ANY
CONTROL ABOUT WHEN THEY COME.
PEOPLE WERE PRETTY BUSY SO
WE&apos;VE ONLY INITIATED ONE PERSON
KEYTAR INTO THE INTO THE GROUP
AND WE&apos;RE HOPING BY THE END
OF THE YEAR TO INITIATE
EVERYBODY WANTS TO DO IT.
SO IT&apos;S NOT I JUST WANT YOU TO
KNOW THAT WE ARE WORKING TOWARD
THAT BUT WE HAVE TO TAKE THE
COMPLAINTS WHEN THEY COME SO
ANYTHING ABOUT STATUS RIGHT NOW
WE ALL HAVE ALL FOUR OF US I
THINK HAVE WORK IN PROGRESS WE
WANT TO SAY ANYTHING ABOUT I
DON&apos;T WANT TO TAKE AN AWFUL LOT
OF TIME BUT THE KINDS OF THINGS
WE&apos;RE HANDLING I DON&apos;T MIND.
I THINK MOST OF THEM ARE
HOUSING OR EMPLOYMENT.
IS THAT CORRECT?
YEAH, I&apos;VE GOT A TRESPASS.
OK, YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
OK, SO IT&apos;S THAT KIND OF THING
WE&apos;RE MOVING THROUGH.
I&apos;M KIND OF IMPRESSED WITH WHAT
WE&apos;RE DOING AND WE&apos;RE GETTING
ON WE&apos;RE GETTING MORE TOOLS AND
MORE EXPERTIZE AND THAT&apos;S A
GOOD THING.
WE ARE ALSO WORKING ON A
DATABASE SO THAT WE CAN ACCESS
COULDN&apos;T GET ANY SENSE OF WHAT
THE PATTERNS ARE LIKE AND BE
ABLE TO ACCESS ENOUGH TO KNOW
IF SOMETHING IS HAPPENING.
YOU KNOW, IF THERE IS A TREND
IN SOME OF SOME OCCURRENCES IT
HAS IT&apos;S INSTRUMENTAL IN
HELPING US WITH THAT IS DENISE
AND LINDA LINDA AND WE&apos;RE
WORKING MUDO SO IT&apos;S HAPPENING
AND JUDITH AND PAM JUDOON PAM
ALL RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH.
SO IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S A BIG JOB BUT
THE LOTS IN OTHER WORDS A LOT
OF THINGS ARE HAPPENING THAT
YOU&apos;RE NOT AWARE OF AND JUST BE
AWARE THAT WE&apos;RE WORKING ON
THEM AND IF YOU WANT TO FIND
OUT MORE ASK WE&apos;RE HAPPY TO
SHARE INFORMATION TRESPASS.
WE&apos;RE ALSO WORKING ON TRESPASS
AND IF YOU REMEMBER CORRECTLY
TRESPASS IS SOMETHING WE
STARTED WE STARTED WE WERE
INTERESTED IN YEARS AGO BEFORE
THE FORMATION OF THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND WE ARE
INTERESTED IN MAKING THE FORM
MORE UNDERSTANDABLE, MORE
ACCOUNTABLE SO THAT WE CAN GET
STATISTICS ON IT MORE USER
FRIENDLY TO THE PERSON WHO IS
BEING IS BEING TRESPASSED.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;RE CHANGING WE&apos;RE
THINKING ABOUT CHANGING
POLICIES AND ALSO HOW IT LOOKS
AND AS A RESULT WE&apos;VE BEEN
MEETING JUDY WHAT YOU WANT TO
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHAT
WE&apos;VE BEEN DOING.
&gt;&gt; SO LET&apos;S SEE OUR LAST
INFORMAL NON CORE MEETING I
REPORTED OUT BUT JUST REPEAT WE
HAD MET WITH SOON TO BE FORMER
CHIEF COX AND SEVERAL OTHER
PEOPLE FROM STAFF AND CITY
ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE.
THEN WE RECONVENED SUBCOMMITTEE
PAM LINDA LESLEY AND I MET TO
DO FURTHER WORK AND TAKING INTO
ACCOUNT SOME OF THE FEEDBACK WE
GOT FROM THE CITY AND WE
SCHEDULED ANOTHER MEETING BUT
WE HAD TO RESCHEDULE IT BECAUSE
NOT EVERYONE COULD BE THERE.
SO WE WE WILL MEET AGAIN WITH
OUR REVISED FORM LINDAS AND A
LOT OF THE WORK ON REVISING THE
FORM AND HAD THE GENIUS IDEA
OF YOU KNOW, WE CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT EVERYONE DEFAULTS TO THE
ONE YEAR MAXIMUM TRESPASS
DURATION AND SO RATHER THAN
HAVE A BUNCH OF DIFFERENT
ALTERNATIVES WE JUST SAY LEAVE
A BLANK TRESPASS SHALL BE FOR
THIS DURATION NOT TO EXCEED A
YEAR AND SO WE&apos;LL SEE IF THAT
FLIES WITH A CITY BUT IT WILL
GIVE THE FLEXIBILITY TO A
SOMEONE FOR QUESTIONING IT THAT
THEY NOT HAVE TO SEEK THE
MAXIMUM RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WHICH MIGHT JUST NOT BE
APPROPRIATE.
YEAH, BUT THAT&apos;S KIND OF WHERE
WE STAND HOPEFULLY WITHIN THE
NEXT FEW WEEKS WITH THE CITY
AGAIN AND IRONED OUT THE LATEST
VERSION OF OUR PROPOSAL.
&gt;&gt; FORTUNATELY WE&apos;VE BEEN
MEETING WITH THE POLICE CHIEF
AND THE TWO DEPUTY POLICE
CHIEFS SO THAT WE ARE WE DON&apos;T
HAVE TO CHANGE WHAT WE&apos;RE
DOING.
WE JUST CONTINUE THE CHANGE IN
AND POLICE CHIEFS WON&apos;T HURT
US.
&gt;&gt; I THINK I THINK WE&apos;RE DOING
FINE.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S THAT I WANT AND
WE&apos;RE ALSO DOING THAT IN
COORDINATION.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE COLLABORATING WITH THE
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION SO
THAT THEY CAN EVENTUALLY TAKE
OVER BECAUSE IT IS MORE IN
THEIR BAILIWICK NOW THAN IT IS
IN OURS.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE JUST FINISHING UP WORK
THAT WE STARTED.
SO THAT&apos;S THAT ALL BUSINESS IF
YOU REMEMBER IN IN APRIL IT
PARK PASSED AN AUDIT A
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF ON
ARMED PUBLIC SAFETY RESPONSE
PROGRAMS IN ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; WE WANTED TO SUPPORT THEM
AND AND WE DRAFTED THE UN
RESOLUTION TO SUPPORT THEIR
RESOLUTION THAT WAS WE THOUGHT
WE&apos;D DO IT IN MAY.
WE HAD TO SKIP JUNE AS A
MEETING.
WE HAD PROBLEMS WITH QUORUM
ETC. AND WE ARE GOING TO PASS
IT TODAY.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS ALREADY BEEN SOME
WORK DONE ON THIS ON OUR
RESPONSE.
&gt;&gt; SO THE CITY HAS ALREADY
STARTED TO DO SOME WORK ON IT.
WE WANT TO MAKE THIS A RELEVANT
RESOLUTION AND I HAVE PROVIDED
WE YOU&apos;VE ALREADY SEEN YOU TALK
TO I GUESS WE DIDN&apos;T WE DID
TALK ABOUT A LITTLE BIT
OF RESOLUTION AT THE MAIN
MEETING I HAVE NOW CALLED
ALTERNATIVE ONE AND I HAVE
DRAFTED AN ALTERNATIVE TO
THAT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT MORE
UPDATED BUT I THINK I THINK
ADDRESSES MORE THE ISSUES
OF TODAY RATHER THAN THE ISSUES
OF TWO MONTHS AGO.
&gt;&gt; AND I WANT TO ASK IF IT&apos;S OK
WITH YOU.
I&apos;D LIKE TO WORK ON ALTERNATE
TO SEE IF YOU WANT TO MAKE ANY
CHANGES AND SEE IF YOU&apos;D LIKE
TO VOTE ON IT.
THAT&apos;S UNREASONABLE.
&gt;&gt; SO THOUGHTS ON MY THOUGHTS
ON EITHER THE TWO ALTERNATIVES
OR AN ALTERNATIVE TO WHAT KINDS
OF THINGS WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE
AREN&apos;T HERE OR ARE YOU HAPPY
WITH WHAT WE&apos;VE GOT NOW HERE?
LESLIE, CAN YOU TELL US JUST
HOW THEY DIFFER?
THEY DIFFER IN THAT IN AN
ALTERNATIVE ONE WE SIMPLY SAID
WE SUPPORT THE RESOLUTION MADE
BY THE INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND
THAT WE WOULD PROVIDE WHATEVER
APPROPRIATE ASSISTANCE IS IS
REQUESTED WITH THE DESIGN AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH A
PROGRAM ALTERNATIVE TO IS IS A
LITTLE BIT MORE PUSHY.
&gt;&gt; WE IT SORT OF SAYS GIVEN OUR
INTEREST AND THE INVESTMENT
THAT WE&apos;D LIKE TO MAKE IN THIS
THAT WE CARE ABOUT IT A GREAT
DEAL WE WOULD LIKE TO BE
INVOLVED IN WE&apos;D LIKE TO BE
CONSULTED ABOUT THE DESIGN AND
IMPLEMENTATION AND WE MIGHT
EVEN GO FURTHER BUT WE
CERTAINLY YOU KNOW AND WE WOULD
ALSO LIKE THE POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION HAVE TO BE CONSULTED
AND THIS COMES OUT OF THE FACT
THAT IN STEP ONE NEITHER OF US
WE&apos;RE HEAVILY CONSULTED AND WE
ARE NOT THERE&apos;S NOW A
CONSULTING FIRM WHO&apos;S GOING TO
HELP GET INFORMATION, GATHER
INFORMATION AND WE&apos;RE NOT GIVEN
A REALLY GOOD DIRECTION ABOUT
WHAT INFORMATION WAS NEEDED AND
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO NEED SOME HELP
NAVIGATING
AND GETTING WHAT WE
THINK WE NEED TO BEGIN A GOOD
NEEDS ASSESSMENT FOR THIS
POLICE FOR THIS UNARMED
RESPONSE.
IT&apos;S YOU WANT THE FIRST STEPS
YOU WANT TO DO THE THE WORK
OF GATHERING THE INFORMATION
AND KNOWING WHAT YOU NEED AND
THEN BUILDING ON THAT.
AND SINCE THIS IS THE STEP WE
BUILT ON WE I I MADE
ALTERNATIVE TO TO SORT OF MAKE
IT CLEAR THAT WE THOUGHT WE
OUGHT TO BE PART OF THE
DECISION NOT JUST SOMEBODY WHO
YOU KNOW, IF THEY NEED HELP
THEY&apos;LL ASK US AND HAVE WE
CONSULTED X PARK AND CHAIR
JACKSON?
YES, WE HAVE.
AND WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS ON
THIS?
I THINK THEIR THOUGHTS ARE THE
SAME AS OUR THOUGHTS ARE GOING
TO BE AND THAT IS WE&apos;RE ALREADY
BUSY.
WE HAVE LOTS TO DO RIGHT.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THERE IS A
ON ALL OF OUR PARTS YOU KNOW,
IF YOU DON&apos;T LIKE WHAT&apos;S GOING
ON, YOU&apos;VE GOT TO SAY YOU&apos;VE
GOT TO GIVE SOME TIME TO IT AND
SPEND SOME TIME IN AND SAY LOOK
,WE WANT TO BE CONSULTED.
&gt;&gt; WE DON&apos;T WANT TO DO THE
WORK.
YOU KNOW, BUT WE WANT TO DO AS
MUCH AS WE NEED TO TO MAKE THIS
A SUCCESS.
OH, SO MAYBE THIS IS NIT PICKY
BUT I MEAN IS IT REALLY FOR US
TO TO INSIST THAT IT BE
CONSULTED?
ISN&apos;T THAT KIND OF UP TO THEM?
&gt;&gt; I I TOLD CHAIR JACKSON I WAS
GOING TO DO THIS.
SHE SAID IT&apos;S UP TO YOU AND I
THOUGHT YES I I THOUGHT I SAID
SHE DIDN&apos;T SAY DON&apos;T DO THAT.
&gt;&gt; SHE DID NOT SAY DON&apos;T DO
THAT SHE COULD HAVE I GAVE HER
THAT I GUESS I STILL HAVE THE
SAME THOUGHT THEN WHICH IS LET
THEM HAVE THEIR OWN RESOLUTION
TO BE INCLUDED IN YOU KNOW I
MEAN SUPER STRONGLY ABOUT IT
BUT IT SEEMS LIKE YOU KNOW THE
COMMISSION SHOULD EACH SPEAK
FOR THEMSELVES WELL AND
ESPECIALLY IF THEY WEREN&apos;T LIKE
REALLY URGING US TO DO THAT,
THEN IT SEEMS LIKE WE&apos;RE KIND
OF INSERTING OURSELF INTO THEIR
BUSINESS THAT THAT IS THAT&apos;S
TRUE.
&gt;&gt; I CAN ONLY SAY THAT I KNOW
THEY&apos;VE DONE A FAIR AMOUNT
OF ACTUALLY A CONSIDERABLE
AMOUNT OF RESEARCH ON IT
ALREADY.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SAYING THEY
SHOULDN&apos;T BE CONSULTED.
YEAH, OK.
I AGREE WITH YOU THAT THEY
PROBABLY WOULD BE PRUDENT IF I
RUN TO CITY COUNCIL.
I JUST DON&apos;T KNOW THAT IT AS
OUR PERMISSION IT&apos;S UP TO US TO
INSIST THAT ANOTHER COMMISSION
BE CONSULTED.
I THINK IT&apos;S UP TO THAT
COMMISSION TO MAKE IF THAT&apos;S
WHAT THEY WANT THEY SHOULD SAY
SO AND EVEN THOUGH I AGREE WITH
THAT IDEA THAT THEY WOULD HAVE
EXPERTIZE TO BRING TO BEAR,
THAT&apos;S KIND OF I THINK THAT&apos;S
KIND OF ON THEM.
TRAVIS, THANKS.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU KNOW, I&apos;M LOOKING AT
KIND OF THE TWO SPECIFICALLY TO
THE RESOLVE CLAUSES WHICH ARE
WHICH ARE KIND OF THE GENERALLY
THE THE MEAT OF THE RESOLUTION
THERE AND SUBSTANTIALLY I READ
THEM AS SIMILAR.
I THINK IT&apos;S SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
IN THAT THE FIRST OFFERS TO
PROVIDE ASSISTANCE FOR THE
SECOND IS A LITTLE FIRMER AND
SAYING THAT YOU SHOULD BE
CONSULTED.
I THINK SUBSTANTIALLY IF IF
YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT THEM I THINK
BOTH COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON AND
I CAN YOU KNOW, IF THIS IF THIS
PASSES CAN KIND OF TAKE THIS
BACK TO STAFF AS WE HAVE HIRED
A FIRM TO DO A COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS, I THINK IT
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR US TO
THEN, YOU KNOW, EXPRESS TO THE
ADMINISTRATOR THAT THAT
SOMEBODY FROM THIS BODY MIGHT
LIKE TO BE PART OF THAT THAT
PROCESS AND BE CONTINUING IN
THAT PROCESS ALONG THE WAY AND
AND THEN TAKE THAT FROM THERE.
THAT DOESN&apos;T NECESSARILY MEAN
THAT, YOU KNOW, EVERY MEMBER
OF THIS BODY WOULD HAVE TO
PARTICIPATE IN THAT.
BUT IT&apos;S POSSIBLE THEN THAT
KNOW STAFF MIGHT REACH OUT AND
AND OFFER TO KIND OF ENGAGE YOU
IN IN SOME OF THOSE INTERVIEWS
AND THOSE THINGS FROM THE
BEGINNING.
AND I THINK WE COULD HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION WITH THE
ADMINISTRATOR WITH EITHER ONE
OF THESE PROPOSALS.
AND SO I THINK TO TO
COMMISSIONER GARBER&apos;S POINT,
THERE IS CONCERN ABOUT THE
SECOND ONE INCLUDING XPAC AS
WELL.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THE RESOLVED
CLAUSES BETWEEN THE TWO ARE SO
SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT THAT
THE EFFECT WOULD CHANGE MUCH
FROM MY PERSPECTIVE.
SO DOES THAT MEAN YOU SUGGEST
WE DO WANT TO DO WHICH ONE
WOULD YOU SUGGEST IF YOU ARE
ASKING FOR MY SUGGESTION UPON
HEARING COMMISSIONER BARBOUR&apos;S
RESERVATIONS?
YES, I WOULD SUGGEST ONE WHICH
WHICH WOULD WHICH WOULD
POTENTIALLY REQUIRE LESS
REWRITING HERE AT THE TABLE.
SO I SHOULD JUST LEAVE JUST
HAVE IT JUST BE THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION SHOULD BE
CONSULTED AND THAT WHAT I&apos;M
HEARING YOU SAY
WELL I JUST I
UNDERSTOOD TELL ME CORRECTLY
THAT IF WE GO WITH ALTERNATIVE
ONE WITH THE UNDERSTANDING THAT
REGARDLESS OF WHAT WE PUT IN A
RESOLUTION THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
REACH OUT TO THE COMMISSION FOR
IS THAT WHAT YOU&apos;RE SAYING THEY
WANT TO GO WITH ALTERNATIVE
ONE?
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LEAVE IT UP TO THE
JUDGMENT OF THIS BODY WITH
REGARD TO WHICH RESOLUTION IT
WOULD LIKE TO MOVE FORWARD.
I THINK WHAT I&apos;M SAYING IS WHEN
I READ THE TWO OF THESE I DON&apos;T
KNOW THAT WHAT I TAKE AWAY FROM
THEM AS YOUR LIAISON IS
SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT BECAUSE
I THINK I WOULD STILL GO BACK
TO THE ADMINISTRATOR AND AND
SAY, YOU KNOW, THIS BODY REALLY
WANTS TO BE INCLUDED.
I THINK THEY WERE INVOLVED IN
CREATING IT FOR ALL OF THOSE
THINGS THAT MAKE IT RELEVANT
FOR FOR YOU TO BE CONSULTED IN
THIS PROCESS AND TO THE EXTENT
THAT YOU KNOW, THE RESOLUTION
IS IS MORE OF A SUGGESTION
EITHER WAY.
BUT BUT ULTIMATELY I MEAN I
THINK I HAVE WHAT I NEED FROM
EITHER OF THESE FROM THE BODY
AS YOUR LIAISON TO GO AND KIND
OF ADVOCATE FOR YOUR INCLUSION
IN THE PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; OK, AND DO YOU THINK WE
SHOULD LEAVE OUT THE REFERENCE
TO DOES IT MATTER TO YOU
PROCEDURALLY IT MAY BE BETTER
FOR YOU TO SPEAK ON BEHALF
OF YOUR BODY RATHER THAN ON
ANOTHER BODY?
YEAH, I CAN UNDERSTAND THAT.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO IF WE IF WE I&apos;D
RATHER USE ALTERNATIVE TO IF
BECAUSE AT LEAST IT SAYS THAT
WE HAVE AN INTEREST IN WE HAVE
SOME KNOWLEDGE ABOUT THIS AND
THE REASON FOR DOING IT MIGHT
BE BECAUSE THERE IS ANOTHER
WHEREAS CLAUSE AS WELL
BUT I&apos;D
BE HAPPY TO CROSS OFF A
ALTHOUGH I HOPE I HOPE TO THE F
AND ALSO I SUSPECT THAT IF WE
ARE GOING TO BE INVOLVED THEY
WILL WANT TO BE INVOLVED SO
THAT WOULD ADDRESS MY CONCERN
LEAVING TO AS IS EXCEPT JUST
STRIKING THE PART WITH YOU KNOW
I MEAN WE UNDERSTAND THAT TO
THE EXTENT ANY OF US ARE GOING
TO BE INVOLVED WE WOULD BOTH BE
INVITED TO PARTICIPATE AND SO
OK, BUT I JUST FEEL
PROCEDURALLY MORE COMFORTABLE
WITH THAT.
&gt;&gt; I GUESS I CAN UNDERSTAND I
THINK THEY HAVE A LOT TO OFFER
THOUGH I WOULD CERTAINLY HOPE
THAT SOMEBODY TAKES ADVANTAGE
OF THAT INFORMATION.
ANYTHING ELSE?
&gt;&gt; I HAVE A FEW WORDING CHANGES
AS I READ THIS ANOTHER A SECOND
TIME I WANTED TO IN THE SECOND
WHEREAS STRIKE AND IN THE THIRD
WHEREAS AT AND AT THE END IN
THE FOURTH WHEREAS WHERE I SAY
BELIEVE WHERE IT IS BELIEVE
THAT HOW IT IT IS DESIGNED IT
SHOULD BE HOW THE PROGRAM IS
DESIGNED AND I THINK THAT&apos;S ALL
IT WAS IT&apos;S JUST MAKES IT
EASIER TO READ
ANYTHING ELSE
ANYBODY WOULD WANT TO CHANGE
YOUR I DID THIS IF YOU ARE
WORKING OFF OF OF ALTERNATIVE
TO ARE YOU THAT ARE THEN YOU
THEN ALSO PROPOSING TO ACCEPT
COMMISSIONER GARBER&apos;S REQUEST
OR ABSOLUTELY.
&gt;&gt; I WAS JUST STRUCK OUT THE
AND THE INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION THEN I
THINK UNLESS OTHERS WANT TO
INCLUDE OTHERS I THINK YOU
COULD JUST PROBABLY INCLUDE
THAT ALL AS ONE LARGE AMENDMENT
IF YOU WANTED TO FOR THE
BECAUSE THE OTHERS WERE
RELATIVELY SMALL CHANGES.
&gt;&gt; OK, ANY OTHER DISCUSSION?
WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THIS I MOTION SECONDED THAT TO
ACCEPT THOSE CHANGES.
OK, DO SOMEBODY MOVE TO ACCEPT
THE CHANGES?
&gt;&gt; I MOTION TO ACCEPT THE
CHANGES.
SECOND ON FAVOR BY THEN DO WE
ACCEPT THE WHOLE THING A MOTION
YOU ACCEPTED THE RESOLUTION
THAT&apos;S LIKE A MOTION YES.
&gt;&gt; YEAH A MOVE THAT WE ACCEPT
ALTERNATIVE TO AS AMENDED.
&gt;&gt; SECOND, I&apos;M IN FAVOR I
RESOLUTION PASSED
OUTREACH.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE A LOT TO SAY ABOUT
OUTRANGED.
WE&apos;VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
OUTREACH ALMOST AT EVERY
MEETING THIS YEAR I THINK A
LITTLE BIT BEING AWARE THAT
PEOPLE I&apos;M NOT DON&apos;T KNOW THEIR
RIGHTS AS MUCH AS THEY SHOULD
AND WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO
HELP EDUCATE PEOPLE TO KNOW
THEIR RIGHTS AND WE HAVE DONE
SOME OUTREACH TO THE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS TO NEUTRAL ZONE AND NOW
WE ARE OUTREACHING TO AND NOW
WE HAVE ANOTHER REASON THE
EXCUSE OF OUTREACH OPPORTUNITY
THAT DIANA DO YOU WANT TO TALK
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THAT ONE?
&gt;&gt; SO WE WERE CONTACTED BY THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND A
COUPLE OF STUDENTS TO AND THEY
WERE THROUGH THE SPECTRUM
CENTER AND THEY WANTED US TO
COME IN AND TALK ABOUT OUR WORK
HERE THROUGH THE CITY AND WHAT
THE RIGHTS OF STUDENTS WOULD
BE.
AND SO WE HAD SOME DISCUSSION
WITH THESE TWO YOUNG PEOPLE OH
I SAY YOUNG PEOPLE BECAUSE I&apos;M
OLD AND SO IT WAS AN
INTERESTING CONVERSATION AND I
THOUGHT I GUESS ABOUT IT KIND
OF AFTER WE HUNG UP THE PHONE
AND I I DIDN&apos;T MENTION TO THEM
ON THE PHONE THAT I WANTED TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE WERE BEING
VERY CLEAR IN OUR INTENT WITH
OUR EDUCATION BECAUSE I DIDN&apos;T
WANT TO CONFUSE UNIVERSITY
STUDENT WITH WHAT THE ANN ARBOR
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION COVERS
AND WHAT WE DON&apos;T COVER .
UM, YOU KNOW, OUR OUR WEBSITE
IS IT&apos;S UM WRITTEN IN VERY I
THINK TECHNICAL LANGUAGE AND I
THINK IT ISN&apos;T ALWAYS CLEAR TO
EVERYONE WHAT WE DO AND DON&apos;T
COVER AND I&apos;VE GOT IT PULLED UP
MY LAPTOP RIGHT NOW UM AND I
THINK IT IT&apos;S SOMETIMES
CONFUSING FOR PEOPLE UM AND I
THINK WE NEED TO DO BETTER IN
OUR OUTREACH AND OUR MARKETING
AND OUR EXPLAINING OF THAT TO
PEOPLE.
SO I THINK WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO GO IN AND DO A
PRESENTATION TO TALK TO THE THE
FOLKS THAT ARE STUDENTS TO TALK
ABOUT WHAT WE DO AND WHAT WE
COVER UM BECAUSE REALLY WHAT
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT IS
EMPLOYMENT, HOUSING AND PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATIONS.
THAT&apos;S WHAT THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION COVERS.
WE DON&apos;T COVER THINGS THAT
HAPPEN ON THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN CAMPUS.
THERE ARE THINGS AND AVENUES
AND PROGRAMS AND WAYS THAT
STUDENTS CAN EXERCISE THEIR
RIGHTS IF THEY FEEL LIKE
THEY&apos;VE BEEN VIOLATED THROUGH
PROGRAMS AT THE UNIVERSITY.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THEY ARE BUT
THAT ISN&apos;T OUR LANE.
WE HAVE TO STAY IN OUR LANE
HERE.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S A GOOD
OPPORTUNITY.
UM, I THINK BOTH OF THE YOUNG
PEOPLE THAT WE&apos;VE SPOKE TO ARE
GONE FOR THE SUMMER.
ONE OF THEM WAS GOING TO TRAVEL
OVERSEAS BUT THEY WANT US TO
COME THEY WANT US TO SPEAK FOR
ABOUT FORTY FIVE MINUTES.
BUT I DO THINK IT&apos;S A GOOD WAY
TO PARTNER AND I THINK THAT WE
MAY EVEN BE ABLE TO HAVE
SOMEBODY FROM THE UNIVERSITY
WHO COULD COME AND ALSO TALK
ABOUT WHAT AVENUES STUDENTS
HAVE IF THEY FEEL LIKE THEIR
RIGHTS HAVE BEEN VIOLATED ON
CAMPUS.
ANYTHING YOU THINK I MISSED?
WELL NO.
I THINK YOU DID A GOOD JOB
THERE THERE THERE BE DUE TO
STUDENTS TO LGBTQ STUDENTS AND
THAT AND THIS WOULD BE A GROUP
OF THEM.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT THEY&apos;RE THINKING
ABOUT AND THEY&apos;RE THINKING I
THINK ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS WHEN
THEY COME IN THE CITY.
WHAT KIND OF RIGHTS DO THEY
HAVE OVER THERE?
THEY&apos;RE RENTING HOUSES OR
THEY&apos;RE YOU KNOW, DOING THINGS
HERE.
WHAT I&apos;M HOPING THAT THIS WILL
DO IS SORT OF FORCE US TO COME
UP WITH A FLIER WITH
EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL AND WITH
KIND OF A PROGRAM.
&gt;&gt; AND IF YOU REMEMBER DIANA
ALSO GOT US INVOLVED AS
PARTNERS FOR IN OUR FIRST
PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND THEY ARE
THEY SUGGESTED SOME OF THE SAME
THINGS.
&gt;&gt; THEIR NEEDS ARE A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT BUT HAVING SOMETHING
HAVING HAVING AN EXCUSE TO DO
SOMETHING BECAUSE THEY WANT US
TO DO THIS IN THE FOURTH
QUARTER WOULD BE WOULD BE THIS
IS A GOOD OPPORTUNITY.
WE&apos;VE GOT TO WE&apos;VE GOT A
PROJECT THAT HAS AN ENDING AND
I WAS THINKING THAT WE OUGHT TO
GET A WORKING GROUP TO COME IN
AND START ADDRESSING IT.
WE&apos;VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT IT FOR
A LONG TIME.
WE JUST WE NEED TO LOOK AT THE
MATERIALS WE HAVE AND LOOK AT
THE MATERIALS THAT WE NEED WHAT
WE DON&apos;T HAVE AND MAYBE
CONSIDER A PROGRAM.
HOW WOULD THAT PROGRAM LOOK?
WHAT KINDS OF TOPICS WOULD WE
COVER ?
WHAT DO WE THINK STUDENTS NEED?
WHAT DO WE THINK AND THEN
ULTIMATELY WHAT DO WE THINK AND
OUR REPUBLIC STUDENTS SCHOOL
STUDENTS NEED WHAT ABOUT YOU
KNOW WHO ELSE MIGHT WANT TO
TALK TO US AND HAVE US PRESENT
ON THAT TOPIC?
SO IT&apos;S AN OPPORTUNITY.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M HAPPY TO I&apos;M HAPPY TO
DRAFT A BROCHURE THAT&apos;S WRITTEN
MORE SIMPLY THAN OUR CURRENT
WEBSITE AND THEN JUST SEND IT
TO YOU GUYS AS A GROUP AND THEN
YOU CAN MARK IT UP AND YOU
KNOW, I UNDERSTAND THAT WE HAVE
TO GET THINGS CHECKED THROUGH
UNIVERSITY PUBLIC AFFAIRS AND
ALL OF THAT KIND OF STUFF.
BUT I&apos;M HAPPY TO DO THAT.
I JUST THINK THAT, YOU KNOW,
THERE NEEDS TO BE SOME MORE
CLARIFICATION ABOUT REALLY WHAT
WE DO, WHAT OUR ROLE IS, WHAT
THE AUDIENCE DOES, WHAT WE
ACTUALLY LOOK INTO WHEN IT
COMES TO DISCRIMINATION BECAUSE
WE DON&apos;T HANDLE EVERY KIND
OF DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE SUN
UNFORTUNATELY AND THERE HAVE TO
BE BROCHURES GEARED TOWARDS
STUDENTS.
THERE NEED TO BE BROCHURES
GEARED TOWARDS ADULTS.
THERE NEED TO BE BROCHURES IN
MULTIPLE LANGUAGES.
AND SO ONCE WE HAVE KIND OF A
COUPLE OF BASE BROCHURES AND WE
GET THE STAMP OF APPROVAL, IT&apos;S
A MATTER OF HAVING THEM
TRANSLATED I THINK AND THEN
KIND OF GETTING THEM OUT THERE
AND EVEN KIND OF I THINK
SIMPLIFYING WHAT OUR WHAT OUR
PROCESS LOOKS LIKE AND
CLARIFYING THAT FOR PEOPLE SO
THAT PEOPLE UNDERSTAND WE ARE
NOT ENFORCERS, WE DO NOT GO
INTO BUSINESSES AND LIKE THE
POLICE AND ENFORCE I WISH I
COULD DO THAT FOR PEOPLE BUT I
DO NOT HAVE THAT AUTHORITY OR
POWER SO BEING CLEAR ABOUT WHAT
WE DO AND HOW WE CAN HELP
PEOPLE I THINK IS ALSO REALLY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT&apos;S VAGUE IN
HERE.
IT&apos;S VAGUE ON OUR WEBSITE IT
JUST SAYS WE WILL WE&apos;LL REPORT
OFF TO OTHER GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES.
WELL, FOR MANY PEOPLE THEY
DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS.
SO I THINK WE CAN BE A LITTLE
MORE CLEAR AND THOUGHTFUL
THOUGHTS HERE.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, I AGREE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT WE AREN&apos;T CLEAR
THAT OUR PRIMARY MECHANISM IS
MEDIA AND I DON&apos;T THINK THAT&apos;S
REALLY CLEAR THAT WHEN WE LOOK
INTO A MATTER IT&apos;S NOT WITH THE
GOAL.
IT&apos;S NOT WHAT THE PRIMARY GOAL
OF BEING ABLE TO SAY YES THERE
WAS OR NO THERE WASN&apos;T
DISCRIMINATION AND I THINK WE
REALLY SHOULD MAKE THAT CLEAR
TO FOLKS I I AGREE OTHER
THOUGHTS
COMFORTABLE WITH
HAVING DIANA DRAFT A START FOR
US?
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;VE GOT SOME MATERIALS I&apos;D
BE HAPPY TO DO.
THERE ARE WRITTEN YES IS
INTERESTINGLY IS THE AS THE
BROCHURE AS THE WEBSITE I&apos;M
AFRAID WE DO THESE PEOPLE DID
SAY THAT THEY WERE WILLING TO
ADD SOME GRAPHIC THEY HAD SOME
GRAPHIC EXPERIENCE AND THEY
MIGHT BE ABLE TO HELP MAKE IT
MORE INTERESTING AS WELL.
BUT THEY&apos;RE DIANA, DO YOU WANT
ANY HELP OR YOU JUST WANT TO
DRAFT SOMETHING AND LET US LOOK
AT IT AND THEN START FROM
THERE?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL JUST I&apos;LL JUST DRAFT
I&apos;LL JUST DO IT BECAUSE I FEEL
LIKE WE JUST NEED TO DO IT AND
I&apos;LL JUST DO IT AND I&apos;LL GET IT
OUT TO YOU GUYS AND THEN YOU
GUYS REVIEW IT, CHOP IT YOU
WON&apos;T HURT MY FEELINGS AND THEN
GET IT BACK TO ME BECAUSE I
FEEL LIKE IF WE IF WE HAVE A
GROUP WILL IT&apos;LL BE LIKE WELL I
CAN&apos;T MEET TODAY AND WHERE IF I
JUST DO IT THEN IF IT&apos;LL JUST
BE EASIER THEN YOU CAN LOOK AT
IT AT YOUR LEISURE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I LOVE IT.
OK, I DON&apos;T THINK WE HAVE TO
VOTE ON LETTING YOU DO IT OR
ANYTHING.
YOU JUST GO TO IT.
EXCELLENT.
THANK YOU.
ANOTHER KIND OF OUTREACH WE&apos;RE
DOING AND WE TALKED ABOUT THIS
IN AT OUR MAIN MEETING BUT WE
DO NOT VOTE ON IT.
&gt;&gt; WE DIDN&apos;T HAVE A QUORUM AND
I THINK WE MIGHT WANT TO VOTE
ON IT NOW AND THAT HAS TO DO
WITH THE OUTREACH THAT WE HAVE
DONE.
&gt;&gt; WE DID LAST SIT LAST YEAR I
WAS FALL TWENTY TWENTY FALL
TWENTY TWENTY SO IT&apos;S ALREADY
BEEN I THINK IT&apos;S BEEN LIKE TWO
YEAH USEFUL TWENTY TWENTY.
&gt;&gt; WELL THIS WAS A PROGRAM THAT
YOU STARTED IN THE SCHOOL
SOCIAL WORK WE PARTICIPATED
WITH BY PARTNERING WITH YOU
SORRY AND AND I THINK IT WAS A
REAL WIN WIN BOTH FOR THE
STUDENTS AND FOR US.
&gt;&gt; WE CAME UP IF YOU REMEMBER
WITH I THINK IT WAS TWELVE
IDEAS OR SIX WAS ABOUT TEN
GROUPS TOTAL ABOUT TEN GROUPS.
SO WE CAME UP A LOT OF TOPICS
THAT WE WERE INTERESTED IN.
WE WANTED SOMEBODY TO DO
RESEARCH ON THEM.
THEY WERE CHARGED TO DO TO
WRITE A REPORT ABOUT WHAT THE
PROBLEM WAS AND ABOUT A
SOLUTION THEY WOULD RECOMMEND
AND WE GOT SOME VERY
INTERESTING THINGS AND THAT
HAVE NOT ONLY I THINK
FERTILIZED OUR THINKING BUT
ALSO HAD BEEN PASSED AROUND
OTHER OTHER COMMISSIONS AND
BEEN USEFUL THERE TO IT
INVOLVES OUR THINKING OF SOME
TOPICS AND IT INVOLVES MAYBE
TAKING A MEETING TO LISTEN TO
THE BEST REPORTS OR THE REPORTS
WE WANT TO HEAR AND SOME AND
FOR SOME OF US IT MEANS MAYBE
MAYBE BEING INTERVIEWED, MAYBE
BEING MENTORED A LITTLE BIT
MENTORING A LITTLE BIT OF THE
STUDENTS.
BUT IT&apos;S NOT TOO MUCH OF A
COMMITMENT MORE I THINK IN THE
PAST IT&apos;S BEEN MORE ME WHO SORT
OF HAVE TO MAKE A TALK ABOUT
WHAT ANAMBRA IS LIKE BECAUSE MY
STUDENTS DON&apos;T LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR BECAUSE THESE ARE
PROBLEMS GENERALLY THAT ARE ANN
ARBOR BASED AND THEY WILL GO TO
TO PEOPLE IN ANN ARBOR TO GET
MORE INFORMATION AND THEY WILL
THEN READ JOURNALS AND WHATEVER
AND COME UP WITH INTERESTING
REPORTS SO IT DOESN&apos;T ACTUALLY
TAKE THAT MUCH OF OUR TIME AND
WE GET A GREAT DEAL OUT OF IT.
ANY THOUGHTS ABOUT THIS BEFORE
WE PUT IT TO A VOTE?
&gt;&gt; I MEAN I THINK THAT I SHOULD
SAY I WON&apos;T BE INVOLVED IN THE
PROJECTS THIS YEAR.
I DESIGNED THE PROJECT.
I&apos;VE GIVEN IT TO TWO OTHER
PROFESSORS AND I BELIEVE THAT
THEY&apos;RE ALSO THINKING ABOUT A
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
SO I THINK THAT YOU SHOULD JUST
BE AWARE OR WE SHOULD BE AWARE
AS A COMMISSION THAT THE
PROFESSOR IS TEACHING THE
COURSE IS NOT AN HRC MEMBER.
THERE MIGHT BE A LITTLE BIT
MORE WORK INVOLVED IN TERMS
OF US EXPLAINING AND TEACHING
AND GUIDING THE STUDENTS, WHICH
ISN&apos;T A BAD THING BUT IT WILL
BE THE REALITY.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT&apos;S FAIR TRAVIS.
&gt;&gt; NO THANKS.
I THOUGHT THAT WE DISCUSSED
THIS AT OUR LAST MEETING TOO
AND AS I MAY HAVE SAID THIS
ALREADY BUT I THINK ACTUALLY
THE PRESENTATIONS WERE EITHER
MY FIRST MEETING OR ONE OF MY
FIRST MEETINGS ON THIS AND I
THOUGHT IT WAS AN INCREDIBLE
KIND OF OPENING EXPERIENCE FOR
ME TO JOIN THE COMMISSION AND
TO HAVE THE STUDENTS COME IN
AND DO THEIR PRESENTATIONS.
SO I THOUGHT IT WAS INCREDIBLY
VALUABLE.
I THINK I LEARNED A LOT I THINK
WE AS A BODY LEARNED A LOT AND
TO THE EXTENT THAT IT IS ALSO A
LEARNING EXPERIENCE AND
BENEFICIAL TO THE STUDENTS, I
THINK IT&apos;S ANOTHER GREAT WAY
FOR US TO PROVIDE EXPOSURE TO
OUR CITY GOVERNMENT TO THOSE
FOLKS WHO MIGHT WANT TO SERVE
WELL IN THE CITY GOVERNMENT.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK IT&apos;S A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY ALL AROUND.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S TRUE.
BUT A HUGE IMPACT ON STUDENTS.
I MEAN I HAD STUDENTS WHO
SWITCH THEIR MAJORS.
&gt;&gt; WOW.
I HAD STUDENTS WHO JUST BECAME
THEY REALLY UNDERSTOOD THE
IMPACT THAT LOCAL GOVERNANCE
CAN HAVE AND THE IMPACT THAT
THEY CAN HAVE.
SO I DEFINITELY THINK IT&apos;S
WORTH OUR TIME.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S NEAT.
YEAH.
I LIKE PEOPLE BEING INTERESTED
IN THE THINGS THAT WE CARE
ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
WE HAVE MORE PEOPLE TO WORK FOR
WITH ANYBODY ELSE.
DOES SOMEBODY WANT TO MAKE A
MOTION THAT WE VOTE ON THIS?
I&apos;M ACCEPTING THIS PARTNERSHIP
AND IT WILL BE SOMETHING THAT
WE WORK ON IN THE FALL SEMESTER
INMOTION WE&apos;VE GOT A MOTION
SECOND HAND ANY MORE DISCUSSION
ALL IN FAVOR POST GRAD FINAL
KIND OF OUTREACH THAT WE&apos;RE
DOING HAS TO DO WITH IT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S SOMETHING I SHOULD ALSO
SORT OF SPEARHEADED.
&gt;&gt; IT INVOLVES SO FAR TWO
THINGS JUST GETTING OUT IN THE
PUBLIC EYE.
I SHOULD LET ME KNOW THAT THERE
WAS A AN OPPORTUNITY AT THE
MICHIGAN THEATER THEY THEY WERE
FILMING THEY WERE SHOWING WHO
KILLED VINCENT CHEN AND THEN
THEY WERE GOING TO DO A PANEL
DISCUSSION.
THEY DID A FABULOUS PANEL
THE MOVIE&apos;S KIND OF OLD BUT IT
DISCUSSION.
IS ALWAYS MOVING AND ALWAYS
THE MOVIE&apos;S KIND OF OLD BUT IT
IMPACTFUL AND I SHOULD&apos;VE ASKED
IS ALWAYS MOVING AND ALWAYS
I MOVIL I GUESS THAT I HAVE
IMPACTFUL AND I SHOULD&apos;VE ASKED
SOME TIME TO TALK ABOUT THE
I MOVIL I GUESS THAT I HAVE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
SOME TIME TO TALK ABOUT THE
I DID AND I PASSED LOTS OF OUR
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
FLIERS THAT ARE NOT FASCINATING
I DID AND I PASSED LOTS OF OUR
BUT THEY DO AND IN FACT WE HAVE
FLIERS THAT ARE NOT FASCINATING
THOSE FLIERS IN CHINESE IN TWO
BUT THEY DO AND IN FACT WE HAVE
VERSIONS OF CHINA.
THOSE FLIERS IN CHINESE IN TWO
I MEAN WE WE HAVE TRIED TO DO
VERSIONS OF CHINA.
THIS BUT I&apos;M LOOKING FORWARD TO
I MEAN WE WE HAVE TRIED TO DO
YOURS, JOHANNA.
THIS BUT I&apos;M LOOKING FORWARD TO
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;RE BUT THAT WAS PEOPLE
YOURS, JOHANNA.
APPRECIATED THAT I THINK PEOPLE
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;RE BUT THAT WAS PEOPLE
DON&apos;T KNOW VERY MUCH ABOUT
APPRECIATED THAT I THINK PEOPLE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AND I
DON&apos;T KNOW VERY MUCH ABOUT
THINK THEY SHOULD AND THIS WAS
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AND I
A GOOD AUDIENCE FOR IT.
THINK THEY SHOULD AND THIS WAS
I HEAR YOU HAVE ANOTHER ANOTHER
A GOOD AUDIENCE FOR IT.
ANNOUNCED BUT YOU WANT TO MAKE
I HEAR YOU HAVE ANOTHER ANOTHER
WELL YEAH.
ANNOUNCED BUT YOU WANT TO MAKE
&gt;&gt; I MEAN I JUST AND JUST TO GO
WELL YEAH.
OFF OF THAT, YOU KNOW, I THINK
&gt;&gt; I MEAN I JUST AND JUST TO GO
THAT THIS COULD BE PART OF OUR
OFF OF THAT, YOU KNOW, I THINK
LARGER OUTREACH STRATEGY.
THAT THIS COULD BE PART OF OUR
RIGHT.
LARGER OUTREACH STRATEGY.
MAKING THINGS MORE ACCESSIBLE
RIGHT.
LANGUAGE GOING TO COMMUNITY
MAKING THINGS MORE ACCESSIBLE
EVENTS, EXPLAINING JUST IN
LANGUAGE GOING TO COMMUNITY
PLAIN LANGUAGE WHO WE ARE
EVENTS, EXPLAINING JUST IN
SPECIFICALLY WITH THE
PLAIN LANGUAGE WHO WE ARE
ASIAN-AMERICAN POPULATION WE
SPECIFICALLY WITH THE
HAVE ONE OF THE HIGHEST
ASIAN-AMERICAN POPULATION WE
COMMUNITY, ONE OF THE LARGEST
HAVE ONE OF THE HIGHEST
COMMUNITIES OF ASIAN-AMERICANS
COMMUNITY, ONE OF THE LARGEST
IN MICHIGAN.
COMMUNITIES OF ASIAN-AMERICANS
SO I THINK US GOING THERE AND
IN MICHIGAN.
PASSING OUT OUR FLIER IN
SO I THINK US GOING THERE AND
DIFFERENT LANGUAGES IS
PASSING OUT OUR FLIER IN
IMPORTANT.
DIFFERENT LANGUAGES IS
THIS IS THIS OTHER INITIATIVE
IMPORTANT.
SOMETHING THAT I STARTED IT WAS
THIS IS THIS OTHER INITIATIVE
STARTED BY I THINK COUNCIL
SOMETHING THAT I STARTED IT WAS
MEMBER LIN SONG LAST YEAR AND A
STARTED BY I THINK COUNCIL
FEW OTHERS I&apos;M HELPING TO
MEMBER LIN SONG LAST YEAR AND A
ORGANIZE THE ASIAN BLACK
FEW OTHERS I&apos;M HELPING TO
SOLIDARITY PICNIC, THE SECOND
ORGANIZE THE ASIAN BLACK
ANNUAL ONE THIS YEAR.
SOLIDARITY PICNIC, THE SECOND
IT&apos;S HAPPENING ON AUGUST 27TH
ANNUAL ONE THIS YEAR.
FROM ONE TO FIVE AT MONTEBELLO
IT&apos;S HAPPENING ON AUGUST 27TH
PARK.
FROM ONE TO FIVE AT MONTEBELLO
WE&apos;RE LOOKING FOR SPONSORS AND
PARK.
WE&apos;RE LOOKING FOR ORGANIZATIONS
WE&apos;RE LOOKING FOR SPONSORS AND
THAT WE CAN ALSO WORK WITH AND
WE&apos;RE LOOKING FOR ORGANIZATIONS
I HAVE MADE IT A POINT TO ASK
THAT WE CAN ALSO WORK WITH AND
IF HRC CAN HAVE SOME FLIERS
I HAVE MADE IT A POINT TO ASK
THERE.
IF HRC CAN HAVE SOME FLIERS
I DON&apos;T IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT AN
THERE.
EVENT WHERE WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
I DON&apos;T IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT AN
SPEAKING AT BUT IT&apos;S DEFINITELY
EVENT WHERE WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
AN EVENT THAT WE SHOULD ATTEND
SPEAKING AT BUT IT&apos;S DEFINITELY
AS REPRESENTATIVES OF OF HRC.
AN EVENT THAT WE SHOULD ATTEND
SO YEAH, MARK YOUR CALENDAR
AS REPRESENTATIVES OF OF HRC.
THAT IS AUGUST 20 IS AUGUST
SO YEAH, MARK YOUR CALENDAR
TWENTY SEVEN WHICH IS A
THAT IS AUGUST 20 IS AUGUST
SATURDAY I BELIEVE FROM ONE TO
TWENTY SEVEN WHICH IS A
FIVE PM AT MONTEBELLO PARK AND
SATURDAY I BELIEVE FROM ONE TO
I&apos;M DOING THAT IN CONJUNCTION
FIVE PM AT MONTEBELLO PARK AND
WITH KATHY WYATT FROM THE
I&apos;M DOING THAT IN CONJUNCTION
SHERIFF&apos;S OFFICE, MARY HULTGREN
WITH KATHY WYATT FROM THE
FROM NAACP RS3 ARE ORGANIZING
SHERIFF&apos;S OFFICE, MARY HULTGREN
IT.
FROM NAACP RS3 ARE ORGANIZING
OK, IT&apos;S A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
IT.
AND I&apos;LL TELL YOU LAST YEAR IT
OK, IT&apos;S A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
WAS FABULOUS.
AND I&apos;LL TELL YOU LAST YEAR IT
&gt;&gt; I MEAN IT IS A LOT OF FUN
WAS FABULOUS.
AND A LOT OF GOOD FEELINGS AND
&gt;&gt; I MEAN IT IS A LOT OF FUN
VERY, VERY NEAT.
AND A LOT OF GOOD FEELINGS AND
&gt;&gt; SO I HOPE YOU CAN ALL MAKE
VERY, VERY NEAT.
IT FINALLY WE HAVE ANOTHER
&gt;&gt; SO I HOPE YOU CAN ALL MAKE
ANOTHER ISSUE THIS THE NEW NEW
IT FINALLY WE HAVE ANOTHER
BUSINESS.
ANOTHER ISSUE THIS THE NEW NEW
IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT KEY TO
BUSINESS.
COMMON INTRODUCED A COUPLE
IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT KEY TO
OF MONTHS AGO AND IT&apos;S
COMMON INTRODUCED A COUPLE
SOMETHING SHE WANTED TO SEE US
OF MONTHS AGO AND IT&apos;S
DO.
SOMETHING SHE WANTED TO SEE US
KEITA HAS YEARS TO GO BEEN
DO.
INSTRUMENTAL IN THE FORMATE THE
KEITA HAS YEARS TO GO BEEN
THE DESIGN AND THE
INSTRUMENTAL IN THE FORMATE THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF VERY
THE DESIGN AND THE
SUCCESSFUL
IDENTITY CARD AND
SHE&apos;S GOING TO TELL YOU ABOUT
AND SHE&apos;S GOING TO SHE&apos;S GOING
TO TELL YOU THE PROBLEMS IT&apos;S
SOLVED, THE PROBLEMS THAT STILL
EXIST AND WHAT SHE THINKS WE
CAN DO TO HELP MAKE IT EVEN
STRONGER.
SO I&apos;M NOT SURE IF FOLKS ARE
AWARE OF THE LARGE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE ACROSS THE COUNTRY
WHO LACK ACCESS TO OUR
GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID CARD.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S HUGE BETWEEN ANYWHERE
BETWEEN NINE AND 11 PERCENT
OF ALL CITIZENS LACK ACCESS TO
AND A GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID CARD
.
AND OF COURSE THERE ARE ANOTHER
ESTIMATED 12 TO 13 MILLION
UNDOCUMENTED FOLKS WHO DON&apos;T
HAVE A GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID
CARD AND THE PROBLEM WITH THAT
IS NOW CERTAINLY POST 9/11 THAT
YOU NEED A GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID
CARD TO DO JUST ABOUT ANY KIND
OF BUSINESS IN THE UNITED
STATES AND THAT INCLUDES
PARTICIPATE IN PUBLIC SERVICE.
&gt;&gt; FOOD BANKS REQUIRE AN I.D.
CARD, TOYS FOR TOTS REQUIRE AN
ID CARD.
YOU CAN&apos;T SIGN A LEASE WITHOUT
A GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID CARD.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN&apos;T OPEN A BANK.
THE LIST GOES ON.
IT&apos;S REALLY DIFFICULT TO
IMAGINE HOW FOLKS SURVIVE
WITHOUT SO IN TWO THOUSAND
FIFTEEN WASHTENAW COUNTY
GOVERNMENT AGREED TO BEGIN
IMPLEMENTATION OF A WASHTENAW
COUNTY ID CARD AVAILABLE TO ANY
RESIDENTS WHO WANT ONE AND WE
DEVISED ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
THAT WAS DIFFERENT FROM THE
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA THAT THE
STATE USED BECAUSE WE KNEW WE
FOLKS WHO COULD NOT MEET THE
STATE CRITERIA SO IN MICHIGAN
AS IN A LOT OF STATES YOU DON&apos;T
REALIZE YOU NEED A GOVERNMENT
ISSUED I.D. TO GET THE STATE
I.D. CARD AND THE ONLY WAY TO
BREAK THAT CATCH TWENTY TWO IS
TO GET A LIKE A LOCAL I.D.
CARD, A LOCAL GOVERNMENT ISSUED
ID CARD THAT THEN WOULD ALLOW
YOU TO GET YOUR BIRTH
CERTIFICATE.
AND I MEAN I DID ALL THE LIKE.
SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT OF ALL
STATES REQUIRE YOU TO PUT FORTH
SOME SORT OF PHOTO ID OR YOU
CAN&apos;T GET THE BIRTH CERTIFICATE
AND THEN PEOPLE SAY BUT YOU CAN
GO ONLINE AND DO IT IF YOU HAVE
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ON A CREDIT CARD.
&gt;&gt; THERE WERE THESE ONLINE
ENTITIES THAT WILL THERE WILL
HAPPILY REPRESENT YOU GO GET
YOUR CARD AND MAIL IT TO YOU.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
BUT FOLKS THAT CAN&apos;T AFFORD THE
15 DOLLARS THAT THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN CHARGES MUCH LESS
THE FUNDS FOR THE BIRTH
CERTIFICATE IT JUST IT&apos;S AN
IMPOSSIBLE SITUATION.
&gt;&gt; SO RIGHT NOW I THINK THERE
ARE MAYBE CLOSE TO YOU KNOW, IN
MICHIGAN NOW THERE ARE THREE
DIFFERENT LOCAL GOVERNMENT
ISSUED I.D. CARDS BASED ON THE
MODEL THAT WE DEVELOPED IN
WASHTENAW.
SO IT&apos;S WASHTENAW ID CARD.
THERE IS THE DETROIT ID CARD
AND THERE IS THE KALAMAZOO ID
CARD AND THEY&apos;RE ALL SET UP ON
THE SAME PLATFORM BETWEEN ALL
THREE CARDS.
WE&apos;RE PROBABLY CLOSE TO HAVING
ISSUED NINETEEN THOUSAND WE ARE
IN CONVERSATION RIGHT NOW WITH
THE STATE TO SEE IF WE GO TO
SEE WHEN THEY ARE GOING TO
IMPLEMENT A TRIAL PROGRAM TO
ACCEPT THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT ID
CARDS IN WASHTENAW COUNTY AT
THE SECRETARY OF STATE&apos;S
OFFICE.
SO NOW YOUR I.D. CARD FROM
DETROIT OR WASHTENAW OR
KALAMAZOO COULD PROVE YOUR
IDENTITY SO YOU CAN USE IT TO
GET YOUR BIRTH CERTIFICATE AND
THEN IT ALSO PROVES YOUR
IDENTITY.
YOU CAN USE TO GET YOUR SOCIAL
SECURITY CARD WHICH IS ANOTHER
PROBLEM.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
AND THEN THEY&apos;LL GIVE YOU THE
STATE ID ONCE YOU&apos;VE JUMPED OR
A DRIVER&apos;S LICENSE IF YOU WANT.
IMAGINE THAT.
I MEAN IT&apos;S JUST CRAZY THE
THINGS THAT PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
DEPRIVED OF AT THE ROADBLOCKS
THAT HAVE BEEN PUT IN THEIR
WAY.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE
THE TRIAL COME TO SEE I KNOW
IT&apos;S GOING TO SUCCEED AND TO
SEE US AND THEN BE ABLE TO HELP
FOLKS WHO NEED IT OUT OF THIS
THIS CATCH 22 THAT THEY&apos;RE IN.
&gt;&gt; WELL, THANKS IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR ARE NOT ACCEPTING
ANY OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT
ISSUED ID CARDS AND IT IS A
REAL PROBLEM NOT ONLY BECAUSE
IT LEAVES FOLKS VULNERABLE TO
BEING ROBBED BECAUSE PEOPLE ON
THE STREET TALK ABOUT THEM AS
WALKING ATM CARDS BECAUSE ALL
THEY CAN DO IS CASH THEIR
CHECKS AND THEY&apos;RE BEING
EXPLOITED BECAUSE YOU KNOW,
EVEN THE BANK NOW CHARGES YOU
LIKE 10, 15 DOLLARS TO CASH A
CHECK ALONE AND YOU HAVE HEALTH
CARE FOR MOST AT MOST BANKS NOW
TO EVEN GET CHECK CASHING
PRIVILEGES.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S EXPENSIVE FOR FOLKS
THAT CAN AFFORD IT.
&gt;&gt; THEY OBVIOUSLY ARE LOCKED
OUT OF A WAY IN WHICH SAVINGS
HELPS YOU BUILD A MORE SOLID
PLATFORM YOURSELF SO THAT WHEN
YOU HAVE AN EMERGENCY YOU
ACTUALLY HAVE SAVED UP THE
MONEY TO HANDLE IT.
IT DOESN&apos;T SPIRAL INTO A
CRISIS.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I JUST WORK WITH THE
WITH A YOUNG MAN WHO HAD AN
EMPLOYER YEARS AGO SET UP AN
IRA ACCOUNT FOR HIM AND HE&apos;S
DISABLED AND HE NEEDED ACCESS
TO MEDICAL BECAUSE HE COULD NO
LONGER REACH THE POINT IN HIS
LIFE WHERE HE COULD NO LONGER
WORK ON THE BANK WHERE HIS
MONEY WAS HELD WOULD NOT LET
HIM CLOSE THE ACCOUNT BECAUSE
EVEN THOUGH HE COULD PROVE IT
WAS HIS SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER,
HE DIDN&apos;T HAVE AN ID CARD AND
IT WENT ON FOR A YEAR UNTIL
FINALLY I JUST TOOK POWER
OF ATTORNEY AND USED MY ID CARD
AS HIS POWER ATTORNEY.
&gt;&gt; NO, IT&apos;S THAT HUMILIATING TO
IGNORE THIS MAN&apos;S RIGHT TO HIS
OWN MONEY AND HE GO OUT AND
FIND SOMEONE ELSE TO PULL HIS
MONEY OUT AND THAT&apos;S THE THAT&apos;S
THE PROBLEM THAT PEOPLE ARE
HAVING SO I REALLY FEEL
STRONGLY THAT THAT THE CITY
THAT WE SHOULD ALL STAND UP FOR
PEOPLE&apos;S DIGNITY AND HELP
EMPOWER THEM BY GIVING THEM THE
TOOLS THAT THEY NEED TO BE
INDEPENDENT AND SELF-SUSTAINING
AND NOT FALL PREY TO CRISES
JUST WHEN THEY ARISE FROM NOW
JUST SO THAT I GIVE UP SORT
OF THE FULL SCOPE OF WHAT WE&apos;RE
UP AGAINST, THE BANKS MAINTAIN
THAT THE PATRIOT ACT REQUIRES I
KNOW YOU&apos;RE CONSUMER KNOW YOUR
CUSTOMER PROGRAM.
EVERYBODY HAS TO HAVE ONE.
THEY SAY OH WE CAN&apos;T ACCEPT IT
BECAUSE WE HAVE THESE YOU KNOW,
YOUR CONSUMER PROGRAMS AND
THAT&apos;S NOT TRUE.
&gt;&gt; THE THE PATRIOT ACT I&apos;VE
READ IT A MILLION TIMES JUST
SAYS YOU HAVE TO HAVE GOOD
REASON TO KNOW THEIR NAME,
THEIR ADDRESS WHERE YOU CAN
FIND THEM AND THAT BALL AND
THEY LEAVE IT UP TO THE BANK TO
DETERMINE WHAT TYPE OF I.D. OR
WHAT TYPE OF REQUIREMENTS
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO MEET.
&gt;&gt; OLD NATIONAL BANK IN ANN
ARBOR HAS AGREED TO ACCEPT JUST
EVEN THE WASHTENAW ID AND ALLOW
PEOPLE TO OPEN ACCOUNTS AND
THEY&apos;RE RIGHT NOW THE ONLY BANK
DOING IT.
BUT I REALLY FEEL LIKE IT IS A
HUMAN VIOLATION TO HAVE A HUMAN
BEING SITTING IN FRONT OF YOU
AND REFUSE TO RECOGNIZE THAT
THEY&apos;VE LIVED IN THIS COMMUNITY
A LONG TIME.
THEY DARE US SO I REALLY WANT
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION TO
BE ABLE TO TO SAY TO BUSINESSES
,YOU KNOW WHAT THE THRESHOLD
REALLY IS HERE FOR TREATING
PEOPLE EQUALLY AND AND THERE
MAY BE INSTANCES, FOR INSTANCE,
FEDERALLY FUNDED HOUSING WHERE
ARE STILL REQUIRED WITH HOUSING
ENTITIES STILL REQUIRE TO
ACCEPT A STATE ID BUT THAT&apos;S
NOT THE BANK.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S JUST FEDERAL HOUSING.
SO I THINK WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT A
AN AMENDMENT THAT WOULD MIRROR
IN SOME WAYS MOST WAYS THE
SOURCE OF INCOME DISCRIMINATION
THAT WE HAVE ALREADY.
SO IT WOULD BE SOMETHING LIKE
UH TO PROHIBIT DISCRIMINATION
BASED ON THE ME BASED ON THE
GOVERNMENT THAT ISSUED THE ID
CARD AND THEN WE CAN GO THROUGH
AND INDICATE THAT THAT YES, THE
ONLY EXCEPTION IS UNDER
CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE LAW OR
REGULATION PROHIBITS YOU FROM
DOING SO.
SO WE COULD CONCEIVABLY MAKE
THIS A PROTECTED CLASS
BASICALLY UH DISCRIMINATION I
THINK.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
IN FACT I WOULD SAY WE SHOULD
TERMINATE SOURCE OF GOVERNMENT
ISSUED
.
OK, UH TRAVIS OH YEAH.
&gt;&gt; TREVOR THANK YOU.
FIRST I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU
MR. COLLIN FOR WORK ON THIS AND
I THINK THIS IS INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT.
I ACTUALLY WAS JUST TALKING TO
OUR CLERK BECAUSE OF STATE LAW
WE CAN&apos;T EVEN SHE CANNOT ACCEPT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT ID AS A VALID
FORM OF IDENTIFICATION FOR
PEOPLE ABOUT AND SO AS YOU&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT BARRIERS THAT
THAT FOLKS HAVE, I THINK IT&apos;S
SO IMPORTANT THAT WE NORMALIZE
THESE IDS THAT WE MAKE IT
STANDARD FOR FOLKS TO TO
RECOGNIZE AND ACCEPT THEM
BECAUSE AS YOU MENTIONED, YOU
HAVE TO HAVE A FORM ID TO GET A
STATE I.D. IN ORDER TO VOTE.
SO I MEAN YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
BARRIERS THAT PEOPLE HAVE TO
JUMP OVER JUST TO EXERCISE
THEIR BASIC RIGHT TO VOTE.
AND SO SO I KNOW THAT THIS IS A
CONSIDERABLE CONCERN AND SO
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I KNOW THAT THERE&apos;S BEEN A TON
OF WORK THAT WENT INTO THIS
SINCE THE COUNTY COMMISSION
CREATED THESE ARE THE COUNTY
CREATED THESE BACK IN THE BACK
I THINK ACTUALLY COMMISSIONER
THEN COMMISSIONER ROPY WHO IS
RETURNING TO THE COMMISSION WAS
INVOLVED IN THAT AND SO I JUST
WANTED TO THANK YOU FOR THIS
WORK.
&gt;&gt; I AM VERY SUPPORTIVE OF IT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
IN THE SAME VEIN I&apos;VE SAID MANY
TIMES HAVE GROWN UP IN A LOW
INCOME SINGLE PARENT HOUSEHOLD
AND THIS IS ONE OF THE SORT
OF INVISIBLE HURDLES THAT WE
FELT WE FACED IN TERMS OF THE
ASSOCIATED FEES AND
DIFFICULTIES IN TRYING TO GET
FORMS OF ID OR GOVERNMENT
ASSISTANCE THAT REALLY PLAGUED
US FOR A LONG TIME AND I THINK
THAT BEYOND THIS JUST BEING
MASSIVELY IMPRESSIVE AND
THOUGHTFUL KITA, YOU ARE THE
FIRST PERSON WHO I&apos;VE HEARD
ACKNOWLEDGE IN ALL OF MY YEARS
BEYOND JUST YOU KNOW, MY FAMILY
.
AND SO I THINK THIS IS
MASSIVELY IMPORTANT.
I FIRMLY SUPPORTIVE OF THIS AND
I THINK AGAIN, AS TRAVIS SAID,
WE&apos;VE A REAL OPPORTUNITY TO TO
NORMALIZE THIS AND I FEEL LIKE
AS WE&apos;VE SEEN WITH THIS
EXPANDING TO THE OTHER CITIES,
IT&apos;S JUST ONE MASSIVE DOMINO
EFFECT AND I FEEL LIKE WE CAN
HAVE A CENTRAL PIECE OF THAT
AND KEY TO THAT ALL STARTED AND
WE&apos;LL HOPEFULLY FINISH WITH
YOU.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YOU WANT TO SAY SOMETHING ABOUT
HOW THIS AFFECTS PEOPLE WHO ARE
TRANSITIONING GENDER?
&gt;&gt; OH YES.
SO ONE OF THE NICE THINGS
THAT&apos;S BUILT INTO THE CARD IS A
LEVEL OF INCLUSION THAT OTHER
OTHER FORMS OF GOVERNMENT DON&apos;T
HAVE.
SO ON THE COUNTY ID CARD YOU
CAN PUT YOUR PREFERRED NAME AS
WELL AS YOUR LEGAL NAME AND A
LOT OF FOLKS WHO HAVE OR ARE IN
TRANSITION PARENTS OF FOLKS WHO
ARE IN TRANSITION GET VERY
EMOTIONAL WHEN THEIR CHILD IS
ABLE TO GET AN I.D. CARD, YOU
KNOW, IN THEIR GENDER.
&gt;&gt; AND I TELL YOU IF IT WERE
JUST THAT IF IT JUST HELPED
THAT ONE PERSON IT WOULD HAVE
BEEN SO WORTH IT SO WORTH IT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S VERY MOVING AND AND
CHALLENGING FOR PEOPLE TO BE
REFLECTED BACK EVEN AT
SOMETHING AS AN I.D. CARD.
RIGHT WITH THE WRONG IDENTITY.
&gt;&gt; IT HELPS FOLKS WITH
DISABILITIES BECAUSE ON THE
BACK OF THE CARD YOU CAN
INDICATE IF YOU WANT A FIRST
RESPONDER TO HAVE KNOWLEDGE
OF A MEDICAL CONDITION THAT
AFFECTS YOU.
YOU CAN PUT IT THERE AND I&apos;VE
HEARD THAT FROM SEVERAL ADULTS
IN PARENTS OF CHILDREN THAT
THEY OR THEIR FOLKS WERE ABLE
TO BOARD THE AIRPLANE WITH THE
ID CARD BECAUSE IN ONE INSTANCE
THE PERSON WAS AUTISTIC AND IT
PRODUCES SOMEBODY&apos;S MOVEMENT
THAT THE FLIGHT CREW WAS
UNAWARE OF AND THEY STOPPED HIM
AT THE GATE.
&gt;&gt; THEY WOULDN&apos;T LET HIM BOARD
AND HE SHOWED THEM THE COUNTY
ID CARD AND THEN THEY THEY
UNDERSTOOD WHAT THEY DIDN&apos;T
UNDERSTAND.
SO THEY WERE JUDGING HIS BODY
MOVEMENTS.
UH, SO I THINK IN THAT WAY IT
REALLY TACKLES HURDLES I DIDN&apos;T
EVEN KNOW EXISTED FOR OTHER
PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, BECAUSE YOU
ONLY REALLY KNOW YOU&apos;RE
CIRCUMSTANCES YOUR HURDLES IN
THAT DEEP MEANINGFUL WAY.
SO PARENTS LOVE IT BECAUSE YOU
CAN PUT ON THE BACK CONTACT
INFORMATION RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU FIND THIS CARD OR IF
YOU HAVE MY CHILD CALL THIS
NUMBER AND I&apos;VE BEEN OPEN AND
HOPE IT&apos;S OF FOLKS OUT THERE OR
IN HERE.
THINK OF OTHER WAYS IN WHICH
THIS CARD CAN BE USED
INCLUSIVELY TO LET US KNOW
BECAUSE WE ARE READY TO
REDESIGN THE CARD NOW AND WE&apos;RE
JUST LOOKING FOR INPUT INTO HOW
ELSE WE CAN MAKE IT BETTER.
&gt;&gt; OTHER THOUGHTS BUT I JUST
WANT TO SAY HOW EXCITED I AM
ABOUT THIS.
I MEAN I PULLED UP THE UNICO
AND I&apos;M LOOKING AT LIKE PLACES
WHERE IT COULD FIT AND I AGREE
WITH YOU THAT SOMEWHERE
SOMEWHERE IN THE MIX OF LIKE
SOURCE OF INCOME IS KIND
OF WHERE IT WOULD GO.
I&apos;M I&apos;M EXCITED ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY PUTTING THIS IN OUR
ORDINANCE AS THIS WOULD BE
REALLY, REALLY GOOD.
THANK YOU KNOW ECHO TURNOVER
ECHO WHAT EVERYONE SAID IT&apos;S
REALLY EXCITING.
I HAVE A PASSPORT AND A DRIVER
ID AND ALL THESE THINGS BUT NOW
ALL OF THESE IT SOUNDS LIKE THE
BEST FORM OF I.D..
&gt;&gt; OH FOR ALL KINDS OF REASONS
THAT YOU JUST OUTLINED AND YOU
KNOW WE URGE PEOPLE TO GET IT
EVEN IF YOU HAVE EVERY OTHER
PIECE OF ID IN THE WORLD
BECAUSE THEN IF YOUR CAR DID
SHOW THAT ONE SHOW THE COUNTY
ID AND THEN WE CAN EXPLAIN IT
AND FOLKS THAT HAVE THAT IS
THEIR ONLY ID ARE THE ONLY
FOLKS CARRYING IT RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO WE CAN DEFEAT STIGMA
WORDS AND CURRENCY.
YEAH.
ARE YOU PUTTING THIS FORWARD
TODAY OR DO YOU WANT TO PICK A
FEW WORDSMITH THINGS BUT I
THINK WE SHOULD TAKE A VOTE ON
IT THE NEXT TIME BECAUSE WE
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME WE&apos;VE
DISCUSSED IT OR HOW DO PEOPLE
FEEL ABOUT IT?
&gt;&gt; I THINK I THINK WE NEED
WORDING VOTER OH FOR THE ACTUAL
ORDINANCE ORDINANCE OK.
YES.
&gt;&gt; AND THEN WE NEED TO LOOK AT
THE I GAVE YOU AND YOUR PACKET
TO RESOLUTION BUT I THINK WE
NEED THE WORDING AND THE
RESOLUTION AND SEE IF WE&apos;VE GOT
WE&apos;VE GOT A PLAN BUT THAT WAS
GOING TO BE MY QUESTION WAS
WHETHER OR NOT RETURNING RIGHT
ABOUT HAD STARTED WORKING ON
LANGUAGE WITH YOU OR IF WE
NEEDED TO INITIATE THAT PROCESS
OR BUT WHERE WE ARE SORRY.
MY QUESTION WAS WAS ALONG THOSE
LINES HAVE YOU WORKED WITH
ATTORNEY WRITING AT ALL YET ON
POTENTIAL ORDINANCE LANGUAGE
ITSELF?
&gt;&gt; NO.
OK OK SO PERHAPS WE NEED A
COUPLE OF PEOPLE TO GO WITH YOU
AND YES.
&gt;&gt; GET SOME WORDING.
YEAH THAT WOULD BE GREAT ONCE
ELIZABETH JUDA I WOULD LOVE TO
HAVE WORK ON THIS.
THIS IS A GREAT GOOD THREE
THREE ATTORNEY YOUR FABULOUS
FANTASTIC JARVIS FANTASTIC GOOD
.
&gt;&gt; OK AND THEN AND THEN YOU&apos;LL
COME BACK WITH WORDING AND
RESOLUTION PERHAPS I MEAN
CHANGES OR MAYBE YOU WANT SOME
OF US TO LOOK AT THE RESOLUTION
ALSO THAT SOUNDS GREAT.
OK, I THINK WE HAVE A PLAN FOR
FOR NEXT TIME I THE LAST PAGE
OF YOUR CALENDAR BY THE WAY
BECAUSE A PICTURE OF A SAMPLE
CARD IS TO SEE WHAT IT KIND
OF LOOKS LIKE RIGHT.
THIS IS ONLY THE FRONT OF IT,
NOT THE BACK OF IT.
OH AND THIS IS THE OLD CARD
HOPEFULLY BY THIS TIME IN
DECEMBER WE&apos;LL HAVE REDESIGN.
&gt;&gt; BUT THE STUDENTS FROM THE
SCHOOL OF INFORMATION AND AT
THE U OF M HAD A CONTEST AND
THEY DESIGNED IT FOR SCHOOL.
&gt;&gt; ANYTHING ELSE YOU NEED FROM
US
WILL YOU KEITER WILL YOU
CALL THIS GROUP TOGETHER TO
WORK ON THIS?
&gt;&gt; OH YES.
YES.
OK, SO YOU&apos;RE GOING TO THIS OK
?
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE HAVE DEALT WITH
EVERYTHING IT&apos;S OWN AGENDA
.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE
ANYBODY WANTS TO TALK ABOUT?
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY COMMISSIONER
COMMUNICATIONS YOU&apos;D LIKE TO
SHARE BEFORE WE ADJOURN?
NO.
HOW CAN WE HAVE A MOTION THEN
TO ADJOURN AND MOVE TO ADJOURN
SECOND ALL IN FAVOR I THANK YOU
EVERYBODY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY OFTEN SAID
YOU